WHERE DID YOU GROW UP? WHAT WAS YOUR PATH TO CAL?

I grew up in The Bronx, NY ("You got a problem with dat?" -- that's
how they talked in my old neighborhood, no joke) until I was 9. The
Bronx is one of the 5 Boroughs of New York City, if you didn't know. I
moved to Westchester (suburb of New York) for a year and then upstate
to a small town near Cooperstown, NY (where the Baseball Hall of Fame
is located). I graduated from Cooperstown Central High, went on to MIT
where I got a double major in CS and EE and graduated in 5 years. Then
I came to Cal as a grad student, did a MS in Game Theory in 1995 and a
PhD in Graphics in 2000, got bitten by the teaching bug and joined the
faculty (in the teaching track) in 2000.

HOW MUCH PROGRAMMING HAVE YOU DONE (& WHAT LANGUAGES)?

I started with Basic in high school in 1985. At MIT I learned Scheme
(in the class CS61A was modeled after, taught by the authors of SICP)
and C. When I got to Berkeley, I learned Tcl/Tk, Java, Python, Unix,
Matlab, Mathematica, html & perl.  My current favorite language is
Python, definitely.

WHAT ARE YOUR HOBBIES?

With two little ones, I no longer have time for hobbies. Their hobbies
are my hobbies, i.e., going to parks, playgrounds, museums, and biking
around. I've gotten more into photography and videography, because
that's something I can do with them.

However, before I had kids my hobbies were: puzzles, games, golf,
basketball, ultimate, animation, juggling, programming, classic comedy
sketches, movies, genealogy, and sharing jokes.

WHAT ARE SOME OF YOUR TALENTS & SKILLS?

I can juggle 5 balls, ride a unicycle (poorly), spin things on my
finger, play the harmonica and congas badly (partly because I can't read
music), recite entire Monty Python sketches, hit a golf ball 275 yds
(though I have yet to break 90!), do an L hang, and wiggle my ears.

HAVE YOU DONE ANYTHING REMARKABLE? HAS ANYTHING MEMORABLE HAPPENED TO YOU?

In high school, I tied the school record in the 200m dash (23.2 s) and
I was the fastest rapid calculator in central NY (~100 high schools).
My high school basketball team went to the state final four game, and
our team was recently inducted to our high school athletic hall of
fame!  In 2012 I was chosen as an ACM Distinguished Educator. In 2007 I
lived in Melbourne (Australia) for 5 months, and I also climbed
half-dome a decade ago.  I've seen a bit of the world (Australia, New
Zealand, China, Mexico, Canada, Venezuela, Brazil, Qatar, Greece,
Spain) but have lots of travel ahead of me.

WHAT COMMITMENTS WILL BE CONSUMING YOUR CYCLES THIS SEMESTER?

In addition to this class, I'm trying to build the world's greatest
edX course with an awesome team of undergrads.  I'm a CollegeBoard
Advanced Placement Computer Science: Principles piloter and serve on
the development committee writing the upcoming exam.  I supervise
three awesome DeCals: GamesCrafters, UCBUGG and MS-DOS X. I'm on the
undergraduate study committee, and I do EECS and L&S faculty advising.
I'm on the ACM Education Board and the chair of a task force that is
trying to launch a new Web 2.0 collection of "Technology for Computing
Educators".  I'm involved with the continuing development of the
Ensemble NSDL computing portal.  I'm also a faculty co-advisor for
BFOIT, local faculty champion of our CSTA chapter, and I'm active in
my local PTA.  I have three awesome cs education grad students. I've
got a 2-hour commute each way (1 hr on BART and time to drop-off or
pick-up my little ones from school).  Finally, and most importantly,
I've got a wonderful wife, an 8-yr old son (in 3rd grade) and a 4.5-yo
daughter with whom I try to spend as much time as possible. Phew!
